>> Scott Moss: Now we're gonna talk
about caching and memoizing and
how much easier it is.
It's an opt in caching, as you guys know,
through the errors that you saw.
You have to decide on how you
want to treat dynamic pages.
And by default,
Next JS detects dynamic pages for you,
depending on what APIs you access.
So if you access cookies,
if you fetch data on a server component,
if you access parameters, if you access
short lived caches that Next JS offers
you, if you access search parameters, if
you access headers, if I didn't say that
already, there's probably something
else if you access any of that stuff.
Next JS, this is a dynamic route,
and because it is a dynamic route,
what do you want to do?
Do you want to cache it or
do you want to suspend it?
Which one?
Right, so
that's where the error comes from.
It won't show you that error
on a page that is not dynamic.
So if you just made a regular page with
nothing dynamic on it, no data fetching,
just pure JSX, you won't get that error
because it's like, this is a static page.
I don't need to.
I know what to do here.
I'm just gonna cache it.
This data never changes, so
it just caches the whole page.
So it's only for dynamic pages,
which is essentially what people want it.
Because I mean, I should have just took a
screenshot of what the docs look like and
put it in here.
What it was like to go through caching
before, what you're about to do now.
There was like router cache,
client caching, data caching, memoizing.
It was just so many levels to it and
it was just really,
really hard to understand.
So we won't have to do that.
So let's talk about caching.
We've been talking about suspending.
What if we go the other route and
we're like, actually,
let's just cache this instead?
What does that look like?
So we'll go through an exercise
to see how easy it is.
The first thing we want to do is take
advantage of this new directive called
Use Cache.
This is the only directive that
is not created by the React team.
This one is actually created
by the Next JS team.
It's called Use Cache.
So if you're just using React or
if you're using Remix,
this won't exist unless they make it.
But as of right now,
I don't know if they have any
plans on making any of this stuff.
This is a Next JS exclusive thing.
It's called Use Cache.
So the way Use Cache works is you
can use it inside of a component.
So this is like a page or a layout,
and it will cache that entire segment.
So in the case of a layout,
if you put it at the top of a layout,
that whole layout will be cached and
all of its children.
And then down the leaf you can opt in for
some of those parts to
be dynamic if you want.
But that's more of like the same way,
whereas suspending the whole page would
block the whole page from loading until
something loaded in would not be a good
user experience, caching the whole page
might lead to stale data in some places.
So you want to get really
granular with your caching for
the same reasons you want to get really
granular with what you suspend, right?
So that is the whole point.
So to get around that,
you can put Use Cache in a function and
not just a component.
And when I say functions,
I'm not talking server actions.
You cannot put Use Cache
in server actions,
you cache the functions that you
use on the data access layer.
So those functions that you use when
a server function is rendering,
that's where you can cache.
So any data fetching function for a React
server component, you can use cache.
And that's how you get down to
as low as where you wanna be.
So think of suspense is like getting down
to the one component that's fetching.
And think about caching as like getting
down to the one function that's
getting data.
You wanna get as close as you can to that,
in my opinion, and
that just leads to a smoother,
more predictable, cleaner experience.
So first thing is you do
the use cache directive.
What we're gonna do is let's go ahead and
cache the getIssues.
So the getIssues is a function that
we use for the dashboard page, right?
Did my JWT expire, I got to sign up again.
Hold up,
.admin@ai.com admin.
Imagine having that domain.
That would be insane.
Absolutely insane.
Okay, so the getIssues is the one
that's being called here, right?
So we wanna cache this.
So where I don't see this
skeleton every time I refresh.
And I'm not doing a hard refresh,
I'm just doing a regular refresh.
I'm doing Cmd+R on my MacBook Air.
So regular refresh, it's still
clearly getting the issues over and
over again because that
mock delay is running.
So I know it's calling
that function every time.
So if I go to my data access layer and
I go to getIssues at the top here,
if I put use cache and
we save that, now I'm refreshing.
I don't see it anymore.
It's not calling that function anymore.
It only called it that.
I'll do a hard refresh.
There's a heart refresh,
then every regular refresh after that.
To do a heart refresh you can
do Cmd+Shift+R on a MacBook.
So that's it you get
caching just by doing that.
It's really great.
Super free.
This would have been turned on by default
in the previous versions of Next JS.
Okay, but now we have a problem.
So what happens if I go create
a new issue and I create it,
I go back,
it doesn't show up because it's cached.
So you can see why people were pissed.
Because this is what happened by default,
right?
Imagine that, you're like, wait, what?
You think your app's broke, right?
You think something's going on.
You're like, why is this not showing up?
And then when you do a Cmd+Shift+R,
you're like, there it is.
It's here now.
So people didn't like that.
So this is why they changed it.
So how do we get around that?
Well, we have to revalidate the cache.
We gotta evict it, we gotta expire it.
So there's two things we need to do there.
The first thing is we need a way
to reference what we just cached.
The best way to do that
is with a cache tag.
So to use a cache tag
inside of this function,
we can use this unstable cache tag.
Next JS puts the word unstable in front of
everything that isn't out of Canary yet.
So don't be scared that it's unstable.
It just means that it's
not out of Canary yet.
They're just taking their time.
It works pretty good.
So unstable cache tag, and you just want
to give your cache any tag that you want.
You can make this dynamic.
If you wanna cache with
certain properties or IDs or
user ID in this case,
this is just always gonna be issues.
So I'm just gonna call it issues, right?
So let's go do that.
Import unstable cache tag.
I'm just gonna refer to it as cash tags.
There's no way I'm writing that out again.
Go down to where our cache is.
Where did I?
Okay, there we go.
And then I can just say, cacheTag issues.
Cool.
So that's the first step is tagging it.
The next step is revalidating
it after a server action.
So you can't call these
functions the cacheTag and
the revalidate tag that I'm
about to show you on the client,
they have to happen on the server.
So the only way to revalidate this
is inside of a server action.
So it has to be on server.
So to do that I'm gonna go to this
actions, this issues actions right here.
These are server actions
cuz it has user at the top.
I'm gonna go to where we
create an issue right here.
I'm gonna go down to where
it is successful right here,
right before we return.
And I want to revalidate
the tag called issues.
You don't have to await it,
you don't have to do anything.
It's just gonna remove it.
That's it.
You can also do this from an API request.
And I know we haven't talked about API
routes yet, but that's also server side,
so this has to be on the server side.
>> Speaker 2: This one's been around for
a bit then since it's not unstable.
>> Scott Moss: Revalidate tag
has been around for a while,
but the other part has not, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Which is funny cuz they're
kinda two sides of the same coin.
>> Scott Moss: I know, exactly.
>> Speaker 2: You can't
do one without the other.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: How long does it cache for
by default?
>> Scott Moss: By default it's cached
forever until you do a hard refresh.
There is another function inside of here.
It's called unstable cache life.
And this thing allows you to like,
determine how long you want something
to be cached and you can even
use it after you make the call.
So that way,
if the life of the cache is depending
on the result of the data,
you could just do it here.
So I don't know, there was something
on the result that you wanted to do
to change this,
what they call cache profiles.
You can put stuff in here.
So I can say something like days,
I can say something like weeks.
I can even put the exact amount of seconds
and days and things that I want as well.
So it's a lot of control over this.
I think this is why it's still unstable,
is they're still figuring this part out.
I think this is the part
that they're kinda stuck on.
But we're not gonna get into that
because I have a feeling that's actually
gonna change.
>> Speaker 3: So in terms of tagging and
the caching and then the invalidation.
This feels pretty TanStack Query ish
to me in terms of how that works.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it kinda does.
>> Speaker 3: Is there a way to get
more granular with your cache and
your cache invalidation?
With TanStack Query, you can give it
an array of dependencies essentially
to specifically target the one
query to invalidate, for instance,
with the getIssue,
like Data Access layer function, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: I'm assuming
whatever's happening with Next or
whatever behind the scenes, that they are
caching individually based on the ID or
whatever that's coming through
the function to get that.
>> Scott Moss: I mean, I think they're
just doing a pretty simple key value store
of just whatever key you put in the cache
tag, that's what's gonna be cached in
the object that they're
sending to the browser.
>> Speaker 3: Gotcha.
So is it only caching one
issue at a time then?
>> Scott Moss: Well, in that case
the way it works is the reason it's.
So let's talk about this.
It's a good question.
The reason it's a directive like
this is because the compiler,
when they see this directive,
they can infer all types of stuff.
They can infer if you had inputs here,
they can infer those arguments,
they can infer the result, they can grab
all the stuff because this directive
allows them to do a static analysis and
observe it at run time.
So a lot of stuff is just done for
you automatically.
So it's a little bit of
magic happening there.
But if you want to get more granular
kinda like how TanStack Query does,
they don't have the mechanism for
that yet, if you want to do that.
>> Speaker 3: Sounds like they
kinda do it for you though.
>> Scott Moss: Right, they kinda do it for
you, so you kinda just.
It's a little magic.
But I think the whole React ecosystem,
especially with React 19 and
the new React compiler, which by the way,
I haven't talked about, but
you can actually use the new
React compiler on Next JS.
It's not enabled by default, where it
automatically does the use callback and
the use memoize stuff for you, I think
there's memes out there right now because
people are saying, React's a compiler now,
and that's a symptom of a bad design.
Now you need a compiler to fix all
the bad mistakes that your framework had.
I don't see it that way.
I think it's more of just that is the
consequence of having a flexible framework
in which people can pretty much
do whatever the hell they want.
But when a lot of those decisions
made by developers are causing
really ill performant or
really slow websites, slow apps,
then if you're the framework creator,
maybe you wanna help solve that.
So you add these tools.
But yeah,
it's really good that they can do this.
But yeah, it is happening a lot
in the background for you.
>> Speaker 3: Gotcha.
>> Speaker 4: Can you create
dynamic hashtags then,
like issue comma, like one or whatever or.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
issue underscore ID or something?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, right.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, yeah, there's
nothing stopping you from doing that.
I mean, you can interpolate this and
do a thing here if you wanted to do that.
So yep, totally cool.
Great, okay, so now we have that.
So let's try this again.
Now let me just refresh
everything with hard refresh.
Go here.
Should see this one.
And there we go.
We see this one.
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Is it a limitation
that revalidate can only happen on
a server action, but not in?
What would be the workaround if we
needed to revalidate while fetching?
>> Scott Moss: If you needed to revalidate
while fetching, I guess technically you
could because those functions in the data
access layer do happen on the server, so
there's nothing stopping
you from doing that.
But I would say you probably wanna kinda
rethink your architecture if you're
revalidating while fetching, because
there's probably better ways to do that,
depending on what you're revalidating,
because you have other tools
in your toolbox,
like you have prefetching with the links.
Yeah, there's so
many other ways to do that.
It's kinda hard to imagine a scenario
where I would need to do that.
But yeah, technically it's possible.
As long as it happens on the server,
it doesn't matter.
Server action, a call to a data access
layer function inside of a react
server component, API routes.
It just has to happen on the server.
>> Speaker 3: How about if some sort
of revalidation needs to happen in like
a background process or
like a web hook or something like that?
How would you handle that?
>> Scott Moss: Well, a web hook.
Good question.
So a web hook would just be a API route.
So there's no difference
between a web hook handler and
a regular route handler
that you would make.
So it'd be the same thing, same syntax,
same everything, background job.
Next JS as a framework has no
concept of background jobs.
So I guess the real answer
to the question is,
if I'm using some other system,
how do I revalidate something?
You would need to make a route,
an API route on your Next JS app whose
job is only to revalidate when hit.
So then you can just make a get
request post request to that route and
revalidate that thing.
And that way you could
access it from any system.
Obviously lock it down if you want to lock
it down and have it take some secret or
something.
But that's usually the pattern that I see.
Just make a route whose job is
literally just to revalidate a thing.
>> Speaker 3: Have you ever had
to cache things across, like,
multiple Next JS instances?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I mean,
in order to solve that problem,
you would need something on
your hosting provider, right.?
So that wouldn't be something that lives.
I mean,
you would need an external data source.
Vercel has something called Edge Config
that does this really well.
But most people will probably use Redis,
cool.
And if I refresh,
we still get our cache here.
It only gets invalidated
after I create an issue.
So pretty simple.
This to me makes sense.
You just call cache when you want a cache.
You invalidate the cache when
you don't want the cache.